README.md, before:

# LatentSync: Audio Conditioned Latent Diffusion Models for Lip Sync

<div align="center">

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv_paper-2412.09262-b31b1b)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09262)

</div>

## 📖 Introduction

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/frameworks_comparison.png" width=60%>
<p>

We present LatentSync, an end-to-end lip sync framework based on audio conditioned latent diffusion models without any intermediate motion representation, diverging from previous diffusion-based lip sync methods based on pixel space diffusion or two-stage generation. Our framework can leverage the powerful capabilities of Stable Diffusion to directly model complex audio-visual correlations.

## 🎬 Demo

<table class="center">
  <tr style="font-weight: bolder;text-align:center;">
        <td width="50%"><b>Original video</b></td>
        <td width="50%"><b>Lip-synced video</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ff3a84da-dc9b-498a-950f-5c54f58dd5c5 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/150e00fd-381e-4421-a478-a9ea3d1212a8 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/32c830a9-4d7d-4044-9b33-b184d8e11010 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/84e4fe9d-b108-44a4-8712-13a012348145 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7510a448-255a-44ee-b093-a1b98bd3961d controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6150c453-c559-4ae0-bb00-c565f135ff41 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width=300px>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f7f9845-68b2-4165-bd08-c7bbe01a0e52 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td width=300px>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c34fe89d-0c09-4de3-8601-3d01229a69e3 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ce04d50-d39f-4154-932a-ec3a590a8f64 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/70bde520-42fa-4a0e-b66c-d3040ae5e065 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

(Photorealistic videos are filmed by contracted models, and anime videos are from [VASA-1](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/vasa-1/) and [EMO](https://humanaigc.github.io/emote-portrait-alive/))

## 📑 Open-source Plan

- [x] Inference code and checkpoints
- [x] Data processing pipeline
- [ ] Training code

## 🔧 Setting up the Environment

Install the required packages and download the checkpoints via:

```bash
source setup_env.sh
```

If the download is successful, the checkpoints should appear as follows:

```
./checkpoints/
|-- latentsync_unet.pt
|-- latentsync_syncnet.pt
|-- whisper
|   `-- tiny.pt
|-- auxiliary
|   |-- 2DFAN4-cd938726ad.zip
|   |-- i3d_torchscript.pt
|   |-- koniq_pretrained.pkl
|   |-- s3fd-619a316812.pth
|   |-- sfd_face.pth
|   |-- syncnet_v2.model
|   |-- vgg16-397923af.pth
|   `-- vit_g_hybrid_pt_1200e_ssv2_ft.pth
```

These already include all the checkpoints required for latentsync training and inference. If you just want to try inference, you only need to download `latentsync_unet.pt` and `tiny.pt` from our [HuggingFace repo](https://huggingface.co/chunyu-li/LatentSync)

## 🚀 Inference

Run the script for inference, which requires about 6.5 GB GPU memory.

```bash
./inference.sh
```

## 🔄 Data Processing Pipeline

The complete data processing pipeline includes the following steps:

1. Remove the broken video files.
2. Resample the video FPS to 25, and resample the audio to 16000 Hz.
3. Scene detect.
4. Split each video into 5-10 second segments.
5. Remove videos where the face is smaller than 256 $\times$ 256, as well as videos with more than one face.
6. Affine transform the faces according to landmarks, then resize to 256 $\times$ 256.
7. Remove videos with sync conf lower than 3, and adjust the audio-visual offset to 0.
8. Calculate [hyperIQA](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2020/papers/Su_Blindly_Assess_Image_Quality_in_the_Wild_Guided_by_a_CVPR_2020_paper.pdf) score, and remove videos with scores lower than 40.

Run the script to execute the data processing pipeline:

```bash
./data_processing_pipeline.sh
```

You can change the parameter `input_dir` in the script to specify the data directory to be processed. The processed data will be saved in the same directory. Each step will generate a new directory to prevent the need to redo the entire pipeline in case the process is interrupted by an unexpected error.

Commit message:

Released training code for U-Net and SyncNet

README.md, after:

# LatentSync: Audio Conditioned Latent Diffusion Models for Lip Sync

<div align="center">

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv_paper-2412.09262-b31b1b)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09262)

</div>

## 📖 Introduction

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/frameworks_comparison.png" width=60%>
<p>

We present LatentSync, an end-to-end lip sync framework based on audio conditioned latent diffusion models without any intermediate motion representation, diverging from previous diffusion-based lip sync methods based on pixel space diffusion or two-stage generation. Our framework can leverage the powerful capabilities of Stable Diffusion to directly model complex audio-visual correlations.

## 🎬 Demo

<table class="center">
  <tr style="font-weight: bolder;text-align:center;">
        <td width="50%"><b>Original video</b></td>
        <td width="50%"><b>Lip-synced video</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ff3a84da-dc9b-498a-950f-5c54f58dd5c5 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/150e00fd-381e-4421-a478-a9ea3d1212a8 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/32c830a9-4d7d-4044-9b33-b184d8e11010 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/84e4fe9d-b108-44a4-8712-13a012348145 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7510a448-255a-44ee-b093-a1b98bd3961d controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6150c453-c559-4ae0-bb00-c565f135ff41 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width=300px>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f7f9845-68b2-4165-bd08-c7bbe01a0e52 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td width=300px>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c34fe89d-0c09-4de3-8601-3d01229a69e3 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ce04d50-d39f-4154-932a-ec3a590a8f64 controls preload></video>
    </td>
    <td>
      <video src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/70bde520-42fa-4a0e-b66c-d3040ae5e065 controls preload></video>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

(Photorealistic videos are filmed by contracted models, and anime videos are from [VASA-1](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/vasa-1/) and [EMO](https://humanaigc.github.io/emote-portrait-alive/))

## 📑 Open-source Plan

- [x] Inference code and checkpoints
- [x] Data processing pipeline
- [x] Training code

## 🔧 Setting up the Environment

Install the required packages and download the checkpoints via:

```bash
source setup_env.sh
```

If the download is successful, the checkpoints should appear as follows:

```
./checkpoints/
|-- latentsync_unet.pt
|-- latentsync_syncnet.pt
|-- whisper
|   `-- tiny.pt
|-- auxiliary
|   |-- 2DFAN4-cd938726ad.zip
|   |-- i3d_torchscript.pt
|   |-- koniq_pretrained.pkl
|   |-- s3fd-619a316812.pth
|   |-- sfd_face.pth
|   |-- syncnet_v2.model
|   |-- vgg16-397923af.pth
|   `-- vit_g_hybrid_pt_1200e_ssv2_ft.pth
```

These already include all the checkpoints required for latentsync training and inference. If you just want to try inference, you only need to download `latentsync_unet.pt` and `tiny.pt` from our [HuggingFace repo](https://huggingface.co/chunyu-li/LatentSync)

## 🚀 Inference

Run the script for inference, which requires about 6.5 GB GPU memory.

```bash
./inference.sh
```

## 🔄 Data Processing Pipeline

The complete data processing pipeline includes the following steps:

1. Remove the broken video files.
2. Resample the video FPS to 25, and resample the audio to 16000 Hz.
3. Scene detect via [PySceneDetect](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect).
4. Split each video into 5-10 second segments.
5. Remove videos where the face is smaller than 256 $\times$ 256, as well as videos with more than one face.
6. Affine transform the faces according to the landmarks detected by [face-alignment](https://github.com/1adrianb/face-alignment), then resize to 256 $\times$ 256.
7. Remove videos with [sync confidence score](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/publications/2016/Chung16a/chung16a.pdf) lower than 3, and adjust the audio-visual offset to 0.
8. Calculate [hyperIQA](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2020/papers/Su_Blindly_Assess_Image_Quality_in_the_Wild_Guided_by_a_CVPR_2020_paper.pdf) score, and remove videos with scores lower than 40.

Run the script to execute the data processing pipeline:

```bash
./data_processing_pipeline.sh
```

You can change the parameter `input_dir` in the script to specify the data directory to be processed. The processed data will be saved in the same directory. Each step will generate a new directory to prevent the need to redo the entire pipeline in case the process is interrupted by an unexpected error.

## 🏋️‍♂️ Training U-Net

Before training, you must process the data as described above and download all the checkpoints. We released a pretrained SyncNet with 94% accuracy on the VoxCeleb2 dataset for the supervision of U-Net training. Note that this SyncNet is trained on affine transformed videos, so when using or evaluating this SyncNet, you need to perform affine transformation on the video first (the code of affine transformation is included in the data processing pipeline).

If all the preparations are complete, you can train the U-Net with the following script:

```bash
./train_unet.sh
```

You should change the parameters in U-Net config file to specify the data directory, checkpoint save path, and other training hyperparameters.

## 🏋️‍♂️ Training SyncNet

In case you want to train SyncNet on your own datasets, you can run the following script:

```bash
./train_syncnet.sh
```
